# Episode 10 - DWR Invoice Backlog
**Series:** Job Book How to Use
**Target Roles:** Administrator, Manager
**Task:** Demonstrate how to review approved DWRs for time-and-material jobs
          and generate draft invoices from the DWR Invoice Backlog.
**Length:** 800-1200 words
**Previous:** Expense Approval Backlog
**Next:** Creating Invoices
**Tags:** Invoicing, Administrator, Manager, Workflow

Welcome back to the Job Book How to Use Series. If this is your first time
watching, remember that each episode builds on the last.

In the previous video, we cleared the Expense Approval Backlog so
reimbursements and job costs stayed accurate. Those approved expenses now wait
alongside labour in the billing pipeline.

Today we will focus on the DWR Invoice Backlog. This is the checkpoint where
approved Daily Work Records from time-and-material jobs become draft invoices.
Getting this step right keeps billing accurate, clients confident, and cash
flow predictable.

Why does the DWR Invoice Backlog matter? Every approved DWR represents work
your team has already delivered. Until you convert that work into an invoice,
revenue sits in limbo. This backlog is the last review before totals, rates,
and descriptions reach a client. Skipping it risks underbilling, double
billing, or sending the wrong detail trail to accounting.

I am logged in as an Administrator so I can see every job in the queue.
Project managers follow the same steps, but they only see the jobs assigned to
them. Either way, the process is identical.

From the main dashboard, look at the Workflow card in the middle row. This is
where billing queues live for administrators and project managers.

-- Click DWR Invoice Backlog --

The DWR Invoice Backlog opens in a new tab. The grid lists every approved DWR
that belongs to a time-and-material job and has not yet been invoiced. Across
the top you will see filters and quick actions. Columns include Job Number,
Client, Work Date, DWR Number, Employee, and Amount. The Ready By column
tracks internal billing deadlines.

You can reorganize the grid to match your workflow. Sorting by job pulls
related DWRs together, and grouping lets you clear one client or project at a
time.

-- Click Job Number Header --

-- Drag Job Number to Group Bar --

Filtering keeps the backlog manageable when volumes grow. Use the filters to
focus on a specific client, job, or deadline without losing sight of the rest
of the queue.

-- Open Client Filter --

-- Clear Filter --

Before you generate an invoice, review the underlying work. Expanding a DWR
shows the labour, equipment, and material line items, including hours and
rates. Approved expenses tied to the same job appear here as well, so you can
confirm nothing is missing.

-- Expand DWR Details --

If you need the full DWR, open it in a new tab to read the crew notes or
double-check cost items. If something needs to be corrected, unapprove the DWR
and ask the technician to fix it before you continue.

-- Click DWR Number Link --

Once the details are correct, select the DWRs you want to bill. You can select
multiple records from the same job and Job Book will roll them into a single
draft invoice. If you select DWRs from different jobs, the system will remind
you to invoice each job separately.

-- Select DWR Checkbox --

With the records selected, generate the invoice. Job Book confirms the job
number and the number of DWRs you are invoicing before it creates the draft.
When the process completes, the DWRs disappear from the backlog and the
Invoice Number appears for reference.

-- Click Invoice Selected DWRs --

-- Click OK --

Return to the dashboard to review the draft invoice. The Invoices card gives
you access to every invoice queue so you can keep the billing flow moving.

-- Click Home --

-- Click Explore Invoices --

You will land on the PM Queue. Every invoice you just created sits here
waiting for a project manager sign-off. If you wear both hats, you can
complete that review yourself.

-- Open Invoice --

Add your representative signature so the invoice can advance. The display
shows the invoice header, every line item pulled from the DWRs, and the totals
that will reach the client.

-- Click Edit --

-- Scroll to Representative Signature --

-- Click Add My Signature --

-- Click Save --

From here, the rest of the workflow depends on the invoice type. Ticket slash
Invoice documents move to the Ticket Queue for client approval before
returning to the Admin Queue. Standard Invoices skip the ticket stage and head
straight to the Admin Queue for final checks and processing.

When you mark an invoice as processed, it becomes available to the Invoice
Process Backlog. That is where administrators export invoices to QuickBooks,
Sage, or another accounting system. Each step keeps your billing pipeline
transparent and auditable.

Let us connect the dots. Field teams create DWRs and expenses. Project
managers approve them in their respective backlogs. Administrators convert
approved DWRs into invoices here. Project managers sign the drafts,
administrators deliver them, and the Active Job Dashboard stays current the
entire time.

A few best practices make the DWR Invoice Backlog run smoothly:

- Schedule a dedicated billing block every week. When the queue never grows
  stale, clients see timely invoices and cash flow stabilizes.

- Use the grouping bar to process one client at a time during month end.
  Sending a unified package per client reduces back-and-forth questions.

- Always scan the expanded details for missing expenses. If the crew logged
  mileage but the amount is zero, pause and confirm before you invoice.

- Record context in the Notes field before you generate the invoice. Short
  reminders like "Waiting on signed change order" help colleagues understand
  status.

- After each billing session, refresh the grid and double-check the Ready By
  column. Anything still in the backlog should have a clear plan to move
  forward.

If you collaborate across offices, share a brief summary after every batch. A
two-line update that lists the jobs invoiced and the values converted keeps
leadership confident in your billing cadence.

Before we wrap up, here is a quick recap. We opened the DWR Invoice Backlog,
reorganized the grid with sorts, filters, and grouping, and reviewed the
supporting DWR data. We converted selected DWRs into invoices, signed them in
the PM Queue, and followed them into Ticket, Admin, and export workflows.
Every step keeps the path from field work to revenue clear and controlled.

In the next episode, we will stay in the invoicing space and build invoices
from scratch. You will see how to handle fixed-price jobs, edit draft
documents, and tailor invoice formats before sending them to clients.

Thanks for watching, and I will see you in the next video.
