# Episode 8 – DWR Approval Backlog
**Series:** Job Book How to Use
**Target Roles:** Manager, Administrator
**Task:** Show how to use the DWR Approval Backlog to review and approve
submitted DWRs. Explain best practices for timely approvals and workflow impact.
**Length:** 800–1200 words
**Previous:** Active Job Dashboard
**Next:** Expense Approval Backlog
**Tags:** Approvals, Workflow, Manager

Welcome back to the Job Book How to Use Series. I am logged in as a Project
Manager with approval permissions so I can walk you through the Daily Work
Record approval flow from end to end.

In the last video we explored the Active Job Dashboard and learned how to
monitor project health in real time. That dashboard tells us where attention is
needed. The DWR Approval Backlog is the first place we act on those signals by
validating the work records that feed every job metric.

Daily Work Records, or DWRs, capture labour, equipment, materials, and field
expenses in a single submission. Until they are approved they are provisional.
Approving them confirms that the information is ready for payroll, cost
tracking, and eventual invoicing.

-- Click DWR Approval Backlog --

From the dashboard I open the DWR Approval Backlog card on the right. The list
loads with the newest submissions at the top. Each row shows the job code, the
submitter, the work date, and summarized hours and costs.

-- Open Filter Menu --

The filter drawer lets me narrow the backlog by project manager, job, submitter,
or date range. I often filter by job when a client needs a status update because
it keeps me focused on a single project story.

-- Apply Job Filter --

Once the list is scoped, I open the first record. I always confirm that the job,
work date, and location match the information we expect from the site log. That
quick orientation step prevents me from approving the wrong ticket when several
crews share similar job names.

-- Open first DWR in list --

The DWR opens to the Summary tab. At the top I see who submitted it and when.
Beneath that I can expand each section to review labour, equipment, materials,
and attachments. I work left to right so I do not miss a section.

-- Review Labour tab --

On the Labour tab each resource line shows hours, cost code, and internal
approval status. I compare the labour hours to the crew sheet or timesheet note
from the field. If the hours jump out as unusual I check the notes column for
context. A strong best practice is to have technicians note weather delays,
overtime approvals, or change work directly in that field. When the note is
missing I leave a reminder in my feedback comment.

-- Review Equipment tab --

The Equipment tab lists rented and company-owned assets tied to the DWR. I
confirm that mobilizations match our plan for the job. If a piece of equipment
appears for the first time I make sure a purchase order or rental request exists
so costs are captured consistently.

-- Review Materials tab --

The Materials tab is where I compare quantities against delivery slips or the
material log. If the crew added photos of receipts or packing slips I open them
directly from the Attachments section. Attachments save me multiple emails
later, so in the Setup Series we coach technicians to capture images before they
leave the site.

-- Review Attachments --

When I reach the bottom of the record I pause to read the overall comments.
Those remarks often explain any adjustments, such as shifting labour to a
standby code or splitting costs between jobs. Clear comments reduce approval
time because I do not need to track down the submitter for clarification.

If everything is accurate I leave a short note acknowledging the review. A
simple statement such as "Reviewed against 04-18 field log" shows that I checked
the details and tells the technician why the ticket moved forward.

-- Add Approval Comment --

With the comment in place I finalize the decision.

-- Click Approve --

Approving the DWR locks the record, pushes labour to payroll exports, and makes
the costs available for job reporting. You will notice the ticket disappear from
the backlog immediately. That confirms it is ready for downstream processes like
the DWR Invoice Backlog and project margin reporting.

Sometimes I encounter an entry that needs a tweak. If the issue is minor, such
as a cost code typo, and your role allows edits, you can correct it on the spot.
Keep in mind that direct edits mean you own that change, so note your adjustment
to keep the audit trail clear.

-- Click Edit --

When the submission needs more work, I choose to reject it instead of editing.
Rejecting sends the DWR back to the technician with my comments. I always
explain exactly what needs to change and why. The more specific the comment, the
faster the corrected version returns to the queue.

-- Click Reject --

Let’s talk about timing. Approvals should happen daily or at least before
payroll cutoff. Approving late causes payroll to scramble and delays invoices. I
block ten minutes at the end of each shift to clear the queue. The frequency
might sound high, but it keeps cash flow smooth and gives leadership confidence
in the job data they review each morning.

Another best practice is to use the backlog as an early warning system. A sudden
spike in equipment charges or a streak of rejected records can indicate training
gaps or scope creep. I pull a weekly export of the backlog history and review
patterns during our operations meeting. Those insights feed back into the Active
Job Dashboard and help us schedule crews more effectively.

Remember that approved DWRs feed several backlogs in Job Book. They populate the
DWR Invoice Backlog for Time and Materials jobs, they feed cost actuals in the
job budget view, and they roll into payroll exports. That means a thorough
review here prevents errors from multiplying later. Accurate data now equals
faster invoicing and fewer revenue write-offs later.

When you finish your session, return to the backlog and clear the filters so you
start fresh next time.

-- Return to DWR Approval Backlog --
-- Clear Filters --

You can now see the queue update with whatever remains. If it is empty, take a
moment to communicate that to the field. Letting technicians know their records
were approved encourages them to submit on time and include the right details.

We covered a lot, so here is the quick recap. The DWR Approval Backlog is where
you validate every Daily Work Record before it affects payroll, reporting, and
invoicing. Work the queue often, use filters to focus, read every section, leave
clear comments, and reject rather than silently edit when major changes are
needed. Those habits keep your data trustworthy and your projects on track.

In the next episode we will stay in the approvals workflow and walk through the
Expense Approval Backlog. You will see how to evaluate expense submissions,
match them to jobs, and keep reimbursements moving on schedule. I will see you
there.
